The kinda core questions that
we are gonna look at is how do
we create maintainable code bases?
I think a lot about when I
started at my current job,
one of the super-duper senior
distributed system engineers went like,
for an architect, what is that, right?
And it made me think a little
bit about what does it mean for
a front-end app to scale?
Because a database might
have a million users,
a hundred thousand users slamming at it,
right?
Your front-end application,
generally speaking,
they download the code into
their one browser, and sure,
it could be Internet Explorer or
Safari, depending on the year.
But generally speaking,
the idea of a million people using it,
it's not necessarily gonna have a larger
effect than one or two, depending on other
than the breadth of the different
situations that they're using it in.
So the way that I kind of explained the
plight of maintaining a large front-end
code base is, I was like,
you know how on the backend,
you all like to break everything into
very small microservices that don't
know anything about anything and
are totally isolated and encapsulated?
He's like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I'm like, my job is to hide
that from our customers, right?
They should never know that you did that,
right?
And so the way I think that a lot of times
a large front-end code base tends to fall
apart is not necessarily that it
goes down a database, right, or
stops taking requests.
It's usually that it slowly erodes,
and kind of in physics,
everything tends towards entropy,
which is chaos, right?
It slowly erodes to the fact that what
should have been a one-point ticket or
a three-point ticket, right, a relatively
easy thing to do, everyone' like,
I don't know,
that might take two weeks, right?
Cuz we don't know what will break.
And every time you try to
push something in production,
someone's pager goes off, right?
Insofar that we build these large,
stateful applications,
the way that they tend to break down on
us is that they become so complex and
so complicated and so chaotic that they
become almost impossible to maintain.
And that's when people start
whispering about the rewrite,
and I've done the rewrite,
the rewrite never goes well, right?
[LAUGH] It's just a new opportunity
to make the same mistakes and
start the process over again, but
you will end up back there as well.
And that is kind of what we are seeking
in our time together in this course,
is to basically figure out,
to the best of our ability,
how do we kind of manage that chaos and
keep it under control.
Like I said, even as I was putting all
this together, and over the course of
the last six months, even in my
relatively, not particularly old, and
it's open source code base, so
I can't really hide anything from you.
I have noticed, there are things where we
need to focus on the testing over here.
We need to, after we get all
the lint errors handled and
all the accessibility errors handled, then
that needs to actually break the build.
But you can't break it in the very
beginning because then you would never
ship again, right?
And so
how do you kinda manage these things?
Cuz they exist in new code bases and
they absolutely exist in big code bases.
If they don't exist in your code base,
either you are the greatest front-end
engineer and you're probably alone.
Or you work on the greatest team possible,
or it is so new and so
small that you just haven't
gotten there yet, right?
And so that's great.
Also, you should hang around, because
maybe we can talk about how to make sure
that you don't end up there, right?
Because for all these things,
each time that I've done this, it is,
you're always trying to push
back the ocean with a broom.
But these strategies over
time start to add up and
you do have a code base that you're
relatively happy working in, right?
So yeah, so as I kinda said, right,
it's probably hard to define what it
means to build a maintainable application,
as we spend the next several
hours together talking about how to
build a maintainable application.
The best way to talk about it is to
talk about what it's not, right?
If you feel like you can't
ship anything without being
worried that something else is gonna pop
off the other end and break, then your
app is probably not maintainable,
you literally can't maintain it.
You want to be able to change stuff and
confidently know you didn't
break something, right?
It's one thing, step one,
you would love to change something and
have nothing break.
Step two, or second best,
is you'd at least like to know before
your customers find out, right?
I joke that you'll always have tests,
right?
It's easy you have automated
ones that run lightning fast.
You're doing it yourself or
your customers are doing it for you.
Somebody is testing this
software one way or the other.
Maybe you wanna refactor
without overwhelming fear.
You know that you need to sit down and
take a step back and
think about this when a new
version of whatever framework or
even some library that you're using comes
out and someone's like, should we upgrade?
And you're like, should we upgrade?
Absolutely, can we upgrade?
No.
And over the fear around that, like,
let's wait until Thanksgiving break or
the end of December to upgrade.
That's when you start to know that it is
time to think about some of these things.
Yeah, updating dependencies and knowing
that everything works without having to go
testing a very small to-do list app,
of course, you can do that.
Even then, it can become tricky.
Testing any kind of
decently large application,
that becomes like an all hands on deck,
the team is kicking it for two weeks,
which is not the best
use of anyone's time.
And the theme that we're gonna
kinda deal with today is basically
how do we automate this?
How do we basically have processes and
infrastructure that is making
sure that we can feel confident?
And yes, we should always have
the human element there, right?
Code reviews are great.
They don't always work at scale.
There's always like,
whenever there's a bug, the joke to git
blame who the last person touch it was.
My thing is, well,
who read the code review?
Who approved it?
And I am guilty of this, right?
Sometimes you're tired, you don't
have the same attention to detail,
probably like the person who wrote it.
Yeah, sometimes you just feel bad cuz
you've been really nit-picky over things,
right, and you get to the point where it's
either it ships or it doesn't, right?
And so code reviews, obviously a thing,
but then can we build the infrastructure
around it so that we're talking about more
forward-thinking and high-level things
rather than you have an extra space
after that opening bracket, right?
Have something deal with that for
you, right?
That's not a good use of anyone's time.
Cool, and so again,
this theme of automation.
If I had to, and
I did have to because I prepared for this,
think about what are all
the components of a well-architected,
and that's a word that I don't love, but
I stole from Amazon in terms
of their cloud services.
What are the pieces of a decent
front-end architecture that
you need to have kinda in place to be
able to consistently ship software?
Testing, right,
all sorts of different kinds of testing,
some of these are more possible than
others, just to kind of make sure that
everything works, because like I said,
either you do it or you automate it.
I think one of the nice things in
the modern era is a lot of the tooling
around this stuff is a lot better.
I would argue that TypeScript, for
instance, takes out an entire class of
tests that I used to write,
that I still occasionally write,
cuz we trust that our APIs stay the same,
but we don't really know that, right?
Just because your type doesn't
have undefined or null,
that doesn't mean that
the API didn't give you that.
Some of the worst bugs I've ever seen
was a well-meaning backend engineer
accidentally shipping a breaking
change to the API, right?
But generally speaking, if you think
about what TypeScript is, right, and
we're not gonna get all the way
into the weeds on this.
But there's a certain spiritual aspect of
it that is running through your entire
code base, making sure that you pass any
given function something that it expects,
right, and yelling at you when
you're unclear about that, right?
That takes away the entire
set of tests where it's like,
you pass null into the function
to see what happens,
and then you pass all sorts
of other bogus inputs, right?
That can still happen cuz it's
JavaScript at the end of the day, but
there's an entire set of tests that
will help in that case, right?
Linting, and linting is tricky
because there's the stylistic ones,
which I'm not super interested in.
One of the things that I've had to learn
to do over time is let go of my stylistic
preferences.
And it's okay if someone uses
a function declaration and
somebody else uses a function expression,
it's gonna be all right.
That's not gonna be the thing that
stops you from shipping stuff.
That said,
there are things in your linting that you
might want to avoid unnecessarily
confusing, like for
loops or something along those lines.
A really great example that I think
a lot about is, for instance,
we have an abstraction for
making API requests.
And yeah, under the hood,
it's just using fetch, sure, sure, sure.
But it's also doing things like, well,
if there is an error, right, go ahead and
bubble that up to Sentry, which is what we
use to track errors in production, right?
And then maybe it's got some retry logic.
And generally speaking,
it's also got types for
the different endpoints that can hit so
you don't mistype a URL.
And it's got a whole bunch of
features that we'll go ahead, and
we have cursor-based pagination,
so on and so forth, right?
You should use that instead
of using fetch, right,
if you're working in
the application that I work on.
However, there's not really a test
that's gonna catch that, right?
That becomes a static analysis, like,
hey, I noticed you used fetch here,
maybe you can opt out of it if
there was a really good reason.
But let's automatically check,
maybe you're brand new, maybe you're just
switching in from another code base and
you don't know everything, cuz yeah,
we should document everything,
except nobody reads it.
And goes ahead and
just kind of informs and
helps guide the maintainability
of code base.
Cuz that's one of those things where
a well-meaning mistake where somebody
didn't know is all of a sudden, hey,
when you're going to the post-mortem and
you don't have any logs,
because maybe the rejected promise didn't
bubble up to your error reporting tools.
And formatting, I think that just set
Prettier up and let it do its thing and
never have these conversations again
is a world that I like to live in.
The kind of one of the major thing's
testing is obviously a huge part of our
time together, all sorts of testing,
all the different flavors of testing.
That said, if you have to run NPM test,
that's you're missing the point, right?
So there should be some process that
we'll go ahead and check the lint.
There's some process that goes ahead and
runs the tests for
you on every push to a PR or
something along those lines.
So we'll talk a little bit
about how to set that up.
And we're gonna use GitHub Actions,
which is wildly powerful for
a somewhat free-ish tool,
free on an open source repo,
relatively cheap on a private repo.
You can do really cool things, like have
it automatically open issues for you.
We have it set that when we bump
the version on the open source UI,
it will automatically open up a PR on
our SaaS offering with a new version
of that and run the tests there as well.
A lot of this stuff will be bespoke to the
unique needs that you have to solve for,
but we'll kinda talk about
the wide range of possibilities.
And my goal is we'll do the kind of
obvious things that everyone should do,
but we'll also kind of explore some of
the interesting recipes and edge cases.
And my goal is that a week from now or
two weeks from now,
you're walking down the street and
you're like,
I could take this tedious manual process
and put together a GitHub Action workflow.
And if you use some other CI/CD tool,
that too, whatever, that'll all work,
but something to think about, what are all
of the annoying things that you do, right?
And when we get to the processes, I'll
round back to deployment infrastructure
in a second, the processes, which is like,
okay, how do we design new features?
Do we have a process for
writing a design document?
Who reviews those, right?
Those things are also really key to the
maintainability of your code base as well.
On those build processes and systems and
stuff along those lines, as it stands
right now, we do this thing where it's
like, we're gonna release every Monday.
That's an hour meeting, with the goal
to cut it down to 15 minutes, right?
So every manual step, someone's taking
a note of how can we automate this, right?
And that's gonna be some of
the stuff we look at today as well.
And then we have that kinda structure.
Does our view layer sit there and
process a bunch of data and
make a bunch of API requests?
Well, that's gonna be hard to test, right?
And we'll kinda see that in some cases.
What is our deployment infrastructure?
That's gonna be unique to
every company you work at, but
we'll at least talk about
it at a high level.
We talk a lot about technical debt.
The other kinda thing that I wanna
highlight is there's also this cognitive
cost, right,
to a complicated code base, right?
If you know that all of your, if you
follow whether it's a pattern like MVC,
which is whatever,
some pattern where you know, okay,
all of the business logic is here.
All of the fetching and
massaging the data is over here,
all of the view layers over here,
we have that kind of setup and
you kinda know where to go looking for
something, right?
That makes you way more
productive in a code base
than everything kind of jammed together.
When we talk about testing,
kind of one of the heuristics
that I'm gonna kinda use,
which is, if you have to mock and
stub your own code,
you've done something wrong, right?
Third party things you don't control,
sure, sure, sure.
But if you are all of a sudden like,
I don't have access to that
hook from outside the component or
the Redux store or what have you,
it doesn't really matter, and
you find yourself mocking things you own,
right, that's a good sign you have
not separated these concerns.
And as I thought about it more and more,
there are kind of the three levels, and
this pyramid is designed after Maslow's
hierarchy of needs, which is first,
have the systems in place, right?
If you don't have the systems, then you
can wax poetic from your ivory tower
about the best way to structure
an application, it doesn't really matter.
Also, you can talk about it over lunch,
but unless you actually have a process for
getting the team on board, and
all those kinds of things,
then it doesn't matter either,
cuz it's just like your thoughts.
And so those patterns,
those kind of belief systems and
how do we structure an application, sit
on the foundation of do you have a system
that keeps everyone honest about that?
And do you have a process for
kind of collaboration?
Otherwise those parts don't really matter.
And so we will spend a lot of
time focusing on the systems,
because one that's the most objective,
right, everyone's code base is gonna
be a little bit different, but
we will when possible kind of talk
about the processes and the patterns.
With that, we will be writing some
code and tweaking some stuff, right?
I went through my own code base and
tried to find, at one point,
I was just gonna grab the entire
open source code base,
I realized that trying to grok
that was a recipe of sadness.
And I learned some things, even trying to
pull certain functions out about how I'm
gonna break a lot of my own rules.
So [LAUGH] I have a set of things to
do for myself after putting this all
together, but trying to take some of those
patterns into small, grokable pieces.
So we will be kind of objectively,
it's not gonna be hours upon hours of
me waxing poetic for my ivory tower.
We'll kinda look at some of these,
particular the systems,
with some small bite-sized
little sample applications.